README.md, before:

# SCOr website

This repository is the source code for the <a href="http://web.stanford.edu/group/scor/" target="_blank">Stanford Collaborative Orchestra website</a>, in a truly democratic fashion! Feel free to submit pull requests if you'd like to change anything about the website, but make sure to follow the guidelines outlined below.

## Contents

1. [Add a new musician](#add-a-new-musician)
2. [Add a new concert](#add-a-new-concert)
3. [Add a new gallery](#add-a-new-gallery)

## Add a new musician

To add a new musician, please complete all of these steps:
### 1. Add musician photo
* Find a photo and crop it into a square. Save as `FirstnameLastname.jpg` (or `.png` or whatever other filetype).
* Add photo to the `img/musicians` directory.

### 2. Edit `res/musicians.json`
* Open `res/musicians.json`.
* Copy the following musician template, paste it into the file, and fill in as many fields as possible. See existing musicians for examples.
```json
{
	"firstname": "",
	"lastname": "",
	"middlename": "",
	"instrument": "",
	"class": "",
	"major": "",
	"bio": "",
	"photo": "../img/musicians/"
},
```
_NOTE: If a musician has a name with non-standard characters (í, ñ, etc.), use the correct character for their name, but use a standard version (i, n, etc.) for the photo filename._

## Add a new concert

### 1. Add concert photo
* Find a photo respresentative of the concert, crop it to a 3:2 width-to-height ratio, and resize it to 300x200px. Name the file using the theme of the concert if there is one. Otherwise, use a short, descriptive, and unique title (e.g. debut, spring2016) -- this will be the concert ID.
* Add photo to the `img/concertcovers` directory.

_NOTE: The concert ID should be all lowercase._

### 2. Edit `res/concerts.json`
* Open `res/concerts.json`.
* Copy the following concert template, paste it into the file (newest event on top!), and replace as many fields as possible. See existing concerts for examples.
```json
{
	"title": "",
	"date": "",
	"location": "",
	"map": "",
	"image": "img/concertcovers/",
	"event": "",
	"id": "",
	"description": "",
	"gallery": false,
	"program": [
		{
			"title": "",
			"subtitle": "",
			"othertitle": "",
			"featuring": "",
			"composer": ""
		}
	]
},
```
* `title` **(required)** is the full concert title.
* `date` **(required)** is the date and time of the concert, formatted as `MM/DD/YYYY, HH:MM AM/PM`.
* `location` **(required)** is the concert venue.
* `map` **(required)** is a link to the location in Google Maps.
* `image` is the path to the image file.
* `event` **(required)** is a link to the Facebook event page.
* `id` **(required)** is the concert ID that you chose in Step 1.
* `description` is currently not being used.
* `gallery` indicates whether or not a gallery exists for the concert. Leave as false until the gallery actually exists (see `res/galleries.json`).
* `program` is an array of sub-objects representing each piece in the program. Fill in those fields according to the following rules:
	* `title`, `subtitle`, and `othertitle` **(at least one required)** are slightly complicated:
		* The `title` field is for titles such as 'Symphony No. 1'. The `subtitle` field is for piece names such as 'Appalachian Spring'. Use one or both.
			* For Mozart's Symphony No. 41 "Jupiter", set `title` to `Symphony No. 41`, and `subtitle` to `Jupiter`.
			* For Copland's _Appalachian Spring_, set just `subtitle` to `Appalachian Spring`.
		* If the title is more unique or complicated, use `othertitle` and write it out in raw HTML.
			* For Rossini's _Overture_ to _La gazza ladra_, set `othertitle` to `<i>Overture</i> to <i>La gazza ladra</i>`.
	* `featuring` is the name of any featured artists.
	* `composer` is the last name of the composer.

_NOTE: Notice that the image name must be exactly the same as the concert ID (plus the image filetype ending, of course)._

## Add a new gallery

### 1. Add all photos and thumbnails
* Descend into `img/performance` and create a new directory, naming it with the concert ID of the gallery. If the gallery is for an event other than a concert, then give it a short, unique, and descriptive name.
* Copy all of the desired photos into the new directory, making sure that none of them exceed 2000px in width.
* Create another directory inside the new one, and name it `thumbs`. This is where the resized thumbnails will be kept.
* Make copies of the photos, resize them all to a width of 200px (let the height stay proportional), and place them into the new `thumbs` directory. These smaller images will be used as the gallery thumbnails, and dramatically increase the loading time.

### 2. Generate JSON for the gallery
* From the command line, `cd` into the website home directory (the one containing `index.html`).
* Run the script `galleryGen.py`, passing in parameters as follows:
```shell
python galleryGen.py <id> <title> <pickerTitle> <date> <description (optional)>
```
* `id` **(required)** is the ID of the gallery. This should be identical to the name of the directory that you created in Step 1.
* `title` **(required)** is the full title of the concert.
* `pickerTitle` **(required)** is a shortened version of the title that will show up in the gallery picker.
* `date` **(required)** is the date and time of the concert, formatted as `MM/DD/YYYY, HH:MM AM/PM`.
* `description` is an optional description to display with every single photo. Include this to insert universal things like photo credits, and then edit individual photos later (if desired).

A proper usage of the script looks something like this:
```shell
python galleryGen.py filmscor "FilmSCOr: Miyazaki, Snacks, Beethoven, and More" FilmSCOr "6/3/2017, 8:45 PM" "Photographer: Harrison Truong"
```

_NOTE: Notice that the `title`, `date`, and `description` fields were put in quotes, since they have spaces._

### 3. Edit `res/galleries.json`
* After running the above script, there will be a new file in your website home directory called `output.json`.
* Open `output.json`, copy its contents, and paste them into `res/galleries.json` (most recent event first).
* Delete `output.json` once you're done with it!

Commit message:

Change SCOr email to stanford, add deploy script

README.md, after:

# SCOr website

This repository is the source code for the <a href="http://web.stanford.edu/group/scor/" target="_blank">Stanford Collaborative Orchestra website</a>, in a truly democratic fashion! Feel free to submit pull requests if you'd like to change anything about the website, but make sure to follow the guidelines outlined below.

After pushing changes to the github, the you must run `./deploy.sh` to update the Stanford-hosted website. This script will prompt you for your SUNet ID and password.

## Contents

1. [Add a new musician](#add-a-new-musician)
2. [Add a new concert](#add-a-new-concert)
3. [Add a new gallery](#add-a-new-gallery)

## Add a new musician

To add a new musician, please complete all of these steps:
### 1. Add musician photo
* Find a photo and crop it into a square. Save as `FirstnameLastname.jpg` (or `.png` or whatever other filetype).
* Add photo to the `img/musicians` directory.

### 2. Edit `res/musicians.json`
* Open `res/musicians.json`.
* Copy the following musician template, paste it into the file, and fill in as many fields as possible. See existing musicians for examples.
```json
{
	"firstname": "",
	"lastname": "",
	"middlename": "",
	"instrument": "",
	"class": "",
	"major": "",
	"bio": "",
	"photo": "../img/musicians/"
},
```
_NOTE: If a musician has a name with non-standard characters (í, ñ, etc.), use the correct character for their name, but use a standard version (i, n, etc.) for the photo filename._

## Add a new concert

### 1. Add concert photo
* Find a photo respresentative of the concert, crop it to a 3:2 width-to-height ratio, and resize it to 300x200px. Name the file using the theme of the concert if there is one. Otherwise, use a short, descriptive, and unique title (e.g. debut, spring2016) -- this will be the concert ID.
* Add photo to the `img/concertcovers` directory.

_NOTE: The concert ID should be all lowercase._

### 2. Edit `res/concerts.json`
* Open `res/concerts.json`.
* Copy the following concert template, paste it into the file (newest event on top!), and replace as many fields as possible. See existing concerts for examples.
```json
{
	"title": "",
	"date": "",
	"location": "",
	"map": "",
	"image": "img/concertcovers/",
	"event": "",
	"id": "",
	"description": "",
	"gallery": false,
	"program": [
		{
			"title": "",
			"subtitle": "",
			"othertitle": "",
			"featuring": "",
			"composer": ""
		}
	]
},
```
* `title` **(required)** is the full concert title.
* `date` **(required)** is the date and time of the concert, formatted as `MM/DD/YYYY, HH:MM AM/PM`.
* `location` **(required)** is the concert venue.
* `map` **(required)** is a link to the location in Google Maps.
* `image` is the path to the image file.
* `event` **(required)** is a link to the Facebook event page.
* `id` **(required)** is the concert ID that you chose in Step 1.
* `description` is currently not being used.
* `gallery` indicates whether or not a gallery exists for the concert. Leave as false until the gallery actually exists (see `res/galleries.json`).
* `program` is an array of sub-objects representing each piece in the program. Fill in those fields according to the following rules:
	* `title`, `subtitle`, and `othertitle` **(at least one required)** are slightly complicated:
		* The `title` field is for titles such as 'Symphony No. 1'. The `subtitle` field is for piece names such as 'Appalachian Spring'. Use one or both.
			* For Mozart's Symphony No. 41 "Jupiter", set `title` to `Symphony No. 41`, and `subtitle` to `Jupiter`.
			* For Copland's _Appalachian Spring_, set just `subtitle` to `Appalachian Spring`.
		* If the title is more unique or complicated, use `othertitle` and write it out in raw HTML.
			* For Rossini's _Overture_ to _La gazza ladra_, set `othertitle` to `<i>Overture</i> to <i>La gazza ladra</i>`.
	* `featuring` is the name of any featured artists.
	* `composer` is the last name of the composer.

_NOTE: Notice that the image name must be exactly the same as the concert ID (plus the image filetype ending, of course)._

## Add a new gallery

### 1. Add all photos and thumbnails
* Descend into `img/performance` and create a new directory, naming it with the concert ID of the gallery. If the gallery is for an event other than a concert, then give it a short, unique, and descriptive name.
* Copy all of the desired photos into the new directory, making sure that none of them exceed 2000px in width.
* Create another directory inside the new one, and name it `thumbs`. This is where the resized thumbnails will be kept.
* Make copies of the photos, resize them all to a width of 200px (let the height stay proportional), and place them into the new `thumbs` directory. These smaller images will be used as the gallery thumbnails, and dramatically increase the loading time.

### 2. Generate JSON for the gallery
* From the command line, `cd` into the website home directory (the one containing `index.html`).
* Run the script `galleryGen.py`, passing in parameters as follows:
```shell
python galleryGen.py <id> <title> <pickerTitle> <date> <description (optional)>
```
* `id` **(required)** is the ID of the gallery. This should be identical to the name of the directory that you created in Step 1.
* `title` **(required)** is the full title of the concert.
* `pickerTitle` **(required)** is a shortened version of the title that will show up in the gallery picker.
* `date` **(required)** is the date and time of the concert, formatted as `MM/DD/YYYY, HH:MM AM/PM`.
* `description` is an optional description to display with every single photo. Include this to insert universal things like photo credits, and then edit individual photos later (if desired).

A proper usage of the script looks something like this:
```shell
python galleryGen.py filmscor "FilmSCOr: Miyazaki, Snacks, Beethoven, and More" FilmSCOr "6/3/2017, 8:45 PM" "Photographer: Harrison Truong"
```

_NOTE: Notice that the `title`, `date`, and `description` fields were put in quotes, since they have spaces._

### 3. Edit `res/galleries.json`
* After running the above script, there will be a new file in your website home directory called `output.json`.
* Open `output.json`, copy its contents, and paste them into `res/galleries.json` (most recent event first).
* Delete `output.json` once you're done with it!
